HW4 (484) Recommender Systems
Published Date
Oct. 21, 2019, 953 a.m.
Deadline Date
Nov. 12, 2019, 1159 p.m.
Description


This is an individual assignment with maximum size of 1.



Overview and Assignment Goals

The objectives of this assignment are the following
Develop a Recommender System that Uses the Rating Information (Matrix) and Side-Information (i.e., Additional Content).
Think about using classification, clustering, or any ideas you may have.
The Scoring Metric will be Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) where the predictions are rating in the range 1-5. As such, you may want to switch to a regression setting since the output can be real-valued.

Detailed Description

Recommender Systems are all pervasive. The objective of this movie recommender system is to predict the 5-star rating a movie will get for a given user. You can use content features as well as the rating matrix to make your final predictions.
Data Description

As part of the training I provide you several different files all zipped together as additional_files.tar.gz (Uploaded in the training portion of this assignment).

Once you unzip this file you will find a readme.txt with a listing of the files and useful information about them (replicated below).

 train.dat This file contains the rating of a user for a given movie.

 test.dat This file contains user movie pairs but no rating (Your goal is to predict these ratings for user-movie pairs)

 movie_genres.dat This file contains the genres of the movies.

 movie_directors.dat This file contains the directors of the movies. .

 movie_actors.dat This file contains the main actors and actresses of the movies. A ranking is given to the actors of each movie according to the order in which they appear on the movie IMDb cast web page. .

 tags.dat This file contains the set of tags available in the dataset. .

 user_taggedmovies.dat These files contain the tag assignments of the movies provided by each particular user. .

 movie_tags.dat This file contains the tags assigned to the movies, and the number of times the tags were assigned to each movie. .

test.dat Test set consisting of user-movie pairs for which you need to produce the ratings

example_entry.dat A sample submission with 71299 entries in the range of 0-5.

Rules
This is an individual assignment. Discussion of broad level strategies are allowed but any copying of submission files and source codes will result in honor code violation. Similarly, it's never acceptable to copy code from the internet, even if you cite the source. Doing so will result in honor code violation.
Feel free to use the programming language of your choice for this assignment.
While you can use (most) libraries and templates for dealing with this problem, you are not allowed to use the modules that do everything (or most of the work) for you (e.g. the surprise package in python). If you choose to use any existing libraries, you should be able to explain these methods and their choice in sufficient detail.
You are allowed 10 submissions in a 24 hour cycle.
Deliverables
Valid Submissions to the Miner Website
Blackboard Submission of Source Code and Report
Create a folder called HW4_LastName.
Create a subfolder called src and put all the source code there.
Create a subfolder called Report and place a 2-3 page, single-spaced report describing details regarding the steps you followed for developing the recommender system. Be sure to include the following in the report
Username Registered on miner website.
Ranks & RMSE scores for your submissions (at the time of writing the report).
Your Approach
Your methodology of choosing the approach, the content features you used if any and what worked, what did not
Archive your parent folder (.zip or .tar.gz) and submit via Blackboard for HW4.
Grading
Grading for the Assignment will be split on your implementation (50%), report (20%) and ranking results (30%).